if you look at my life from an outside
perspective people might think wow
daniel's life looks so amazing he just
plays video games all day and doesn't
have to work but then from my inside
perspective i feel empty and hollow
like my life is meaningless and i feel
very unfulfilled in life in general i
think there's a very high probability
that after i finish making this video
i'm going to play some of the brand new
battlefield 2042 because that's pretty
fun unlike studying they say life is a
never-ending journey of learning but the
problem is
i've been living this way for such a
long time 10 years plus now
that the idea of doing anything
challenging or difficult or even
thinking about learning something new
it's just so alien to me i look back at
my 20s and i kind of realized how i
completely wasted them when i say that i
wasted it what i mean is i didn't really
do anything during my 20s
that benefits me now in my 30s i was
wasting my time playing video games and
chasing girls and going from meaningless
relationship to meaningless relationship
when i was in my 20s i never really
imagined myself not being in my 20s
anymore i could never really
think of myself as a 30 year old in the
same way when i was a kid i could never
imagine myself not being a kid and then
eventually becoming an adult and when i
was in my 20s i never really worried
about things like
what are people going to think of me
when i'm in my 30s and i've got nothing
to show for it apart from memories of
just chasing girls and playing video
games that's not very impressive and
when you meet someone and they ask you
stuff like so what have you been doing
in japan
what have you been doing in the last few
years and you don't really have anything
impressive to tell them apart from oh i
i got 6 000 playtime hours on rainbow
six and i got five girlfriends in japan
no one is impressed by that and they
think you're a loser my looks are gonna
fade soon and i'm not gonna look
young anymore which was probably the
only reason why i was able to get girls
in the first place because let's face it
it's not like girls likes me for my
amazing personality or my huge amounts
of money somewhere along the line
probably in my early 20s
nearing my mid-20s i kind of gave up on
all ideas of
working towards something i just kind of
failed everything i failed at becoming
fluent at japanese or korean
i failed at trying to get into
university i failed at trying to work a
normal job
and after failing everything it just
kind of made me not want to try anymore
look man
i know what you're expecting me to say
you're expecting me to do what all the
other success merchants on youtube do
and say hey look at this guy his life is
a failure not like me like not like a
successful person like myself oh and you
yes you you can also learn the secrets
to success if only you buy my ebook if
only you sign up for my course
you pay for my coaching or my
encouragement that is not my perspective
on this matter
at all
most of you are gonna fail
if you're really honest with yourself
about what it was you were trying to
succeed in
chapter by chapter in your life
your life has probably been a succession
of failures
and looking ahead to the future
whether your ambitions are great or
small it is very likely that the future
you have to look forward to
is likewise going to be
a succession of failures and i i think
i think i'm different from most other
people
just in being really honest with myself
and really honest with my audience
really honest with my parents my friends
anyone who listened to me i'm really
honest
in looking back at my life
and seeing a succession of failures and
remembering accurately what it was i was
trying to accomplish oh it would be so
easy for me to describe to you my
experience living and working in
thailand as a great success no it wasn't
it was a failure it didn't just ended
failure it was a failure at every stage
all my whole experience you know
professional and educational experience
in cambodia
at a job interview imagine how easy it
would be for me to make that sound
really impressive and interesting and
successful
it was a failure and if you think about
what my aspirations were what i wanted
to do during those years of my life and
what i wanted to do in the next few
years following after right was a total
failure some of the failures in my life
are easy to see from the outside and
some of them are harder to detect
my youtube channel is a failure my whole
involvement in vegan activism is a
failure and yes yes y'all can any of you
remember that i actually enrolled in
college to learn how to become a baker
that ended in failure but there are two
really important distinctions
i want to draw your attention to one is
this
there's a huge huge difference
between failing
because of something that was lacking in
yourself because of something you did
wrong some passion some characteristic
some capacity or ability that you didn't
have
there's a difference between that kind
of failure and failing because of
outside forces that are beyond your
control
those two things
might not feel different from one
another when you're actually living
through it yourself when you're the one
who chose to enroll in a particular
college let's just say to learn how to
be a vegan baker and then you find out
once you've got there once you've
already paid your money that that's
gonna be impossible
not due to any quality you're lacking
not due to any confidence or
characteristic that's lacking in you not
because you don't have the will or the
passion or the verve of the tenacity no
no no no that's gonna be impossible
due to factors outside of your control
still you'll regret it still you'll hate
yourself for it even if the only thing
you have to hate yourself for is that
you were so naive so jejune so trusting
as to sign up for this program and hand
over your money that type of failure
failure due to external factors
situations that are not under your
control there's no way you can see it
coming there's no way you can
prepare yourself for it
but here's what you can do
you can choose to have ambitions you can
choose to have projects you can choose
to have objectives
that are so meaningful that even if you
fail when you look back at them when you
look back on that series of chapters
that succession of failures however you
want to put it you feel wow yes that was
a failure but i learned so much i
benefited so much i grew so much by
living through that failure now i just
said to you a moment ago my youtube
channel is a failure
what would be success when you're making
youtube videos talking about socrates
and aristotle and thucydides ancient
greece and ancient rome i don't know
but i could keep on failing for the next
five years i could keep on reading and
doing research and making videos about
obscure topics in the history of
politics and philosophy i could i could
just focus narrowly on aristotle for the
next couple of years and even if i
failed with every single video i
uploaded i'd be able to look back on
that and say well yeah that video only
got 800 views but i learned so much i
gained so much if i look back on videos
i did just a few years ago i'm able to
really feel how much i've learned
because i'm able to watch that video
think oh if i were to make a video on
that topic today it would be so much
different because of the reading i've
done or just because of the way in which
my own perspective
has matured
it's the easiest thing in the world for
a real estate agency to recruit someone
by just showing them photographs of
their most successful employees they can
they can hand it a folder to you say oh
look this is dave after just two years
working here he earned over a million
dollars
in bonuses and that and that all may be
true
but can you ask them yet do you have
another
folder
for all the losers who worked here for
years their lives for decades and never
made
a million bucks do you have a folder for
all the people who maybe only worked
here for six months or a year and they
were just terrible at the job and
couldn't hack it and then had to leave
and find a new a new career path
do you have some way of quantifying the
extent
and depth
of failure
and if all you're motivated by is money
or if all you're motivated by is sex or
the strange fleeting kind of enjoyment
that comes from playing video games
if this doesn't work out if it fails
when you look back at what you've done
what is that that you're gonna feel
you've really learned
in what way will you be able to say that
this succession of failures
has made you
a better person y'all already know what
it is no pain no paper head pulling
cable with no mess get getting how you
kneel i don't live at all but [ __ ] say
i can't do it i'm doing that don't tell
your mama now i'm coming through that
get my [ __ ] money you already
know what it is crunchy [ __ ]
black kill yourself slap the cash [ __ ]
slap the [ __ ] cat killer kill
black red y'all pimp still in the
[ __ ] building lift it black i
see you baby
get out you little [ __ ]
[Music]
that's for the kids [ __ ] i ain't doing
all this [ __ ] for nothing
i ain't doing all this [ __ ] but nothing
for my [ __ ] kids [ __ ] get out
of here [ __ ] you suck dick for free
[ __ ] you [ __ ] for free get out of here
and ain't [ __ ] shaking with me
i ain't [ __ ] shaking you're gonna hear
that song too ain't [ __ ] shaking it is
what it is
it went out but it still is what it is
get out you live or don't live at all
you on top of it
you wanna talk about
big face i see you baby
pretty ricky
[Music]
i'm still trying to get my child